Evolution Simulator: Problem/Idea Definition

Overview: Create a simulation of evolution where the user can play around with a display of creatures.  The display should allow the user to either breed an existing creature to generate mutant children, or replace existing creatures with brand new random mutants.   Hitting the escape key should exit the program.  Instructions will be presented on screen.

Layout:
The display should have a header which communicates the actions that the user can take.  Below this header should be table consisting of the current creatures in rows and columns.

Initial State:
The header with instructions should be drawn, and all panels of the table should have a randomly generated creature.

Actions:
1) Pressing the escape key should terminate the program.
2) Left mouse clicking on a creatures panel should make it the parent, and label it as such.  The parent will immediately breed mutant children to all other panels in the table of the creature display.
3) Right mouse clicking a creatures panel should replace it with a brand new mutant creatures generated from scratch.  The creature should be labeled as replaced.
4) Right mouse clicking the header (or anywhere but a creature panel) should replace all creatures with new random mutants.  All creatures should be labeled as replaced.

Creature display:
A creature will be drawn as a hierarchical tree structure.  A different chromosome will control each level of the tree (for example the second chromosome controls the second tier of branches).  Each branch of the tree is drawn as a segment.  A creature will be defined by a genome consisting of a list of chromosomes.  The number of chromosomes controlling the maximum depth of branching.  A terminate gene should be provided to stop branching before the maximum is hit.    

Chromosome definition:
A chromosome will consist of an integer value.  The bits of which will defined as genes controlling how a tier of the tree is drawn.  There should be genes defined for segment length, shape, angle, symmetry, color, termination etc.  Use your imagination to come up with interesting genetic attributes for a segment.  

Mutation simulation:
A way for generating a creature with random genome should be provided.  A mutant child is to be generated by taking a parent creatures genome and apply random point mutations (flipping random bits) in the chromosome.  These will be utilized by the mouse click actions.